[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>RAM DASS: When
someone is using a mala
and reciting japa, meaning
the name of God, doing mantra,
this is an auditory technique
of bringing you back
into that heart cave,
back into the hridaya,
the spiritual heart.
On and on goes the mantra.
Om mani padme hum is such a
widely used mantra in Tibet.
There are millions
of prayer wheels.
And inside, written a million
times in tiny little letters,
is, Om mani padme hum.
And you very often
see a Tibetan woman.
She'll have her prayer wheel in
one hand, which, with a twist,
she keeps it going around.
And in her left hand,
she'll have her mala.
On the back is her baby.
On the head are her vegetables.
And on her face is a big smile.
Even though her belly is empty,
she's just completely centered
going down the mountainside.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
At the temples, around the
center, around the stupa,
there are huge wheels--
some of them as big as 12,
15 feet high.
And as you walk around, keep
walking around the stupa,
and from 4 o'clock
on, the Tibetan monks
are just walking
around the stupa.
(CHANTING) Om mani padme hum.
Om mani padme hum.
And as they walk, they're
hitting the wheels.
And the wheels are going
around and around and around.
And you hear the wheels
whirring in the morning.
And it's semi dark.
100 voices.
(CHANTING) Om mani padme hum.
And the wheels are going around.
And then you walk out
of the countryside.
And you're following a little
path back into the hills.
And you come to a stone.
And covering the entire thing
in the tiniest little writing,
Om mani padme hum.
So for the first day or
two, it was out there.
Then it started to be subvocal.
And then what it felt like
was as if it was a big bucket.
And it would go down into that
great big bowl of ambrosia.
And it would dip into the
bucket of ambrosia each time,
and it would pull up.
It started in the manipura,
in the third chakra,
right down in the stomach.
Om came up.
Om mani padme hum.
It's pronounced H-N-U-N-G. With
the back of the nose closed.
And when you do it right,
it vibrates in your chin.
You go, hum.
And then one night, I
lay down to go to sleep.
And all day long, I've been
saying Om mani padme hum.
I lay down.
I closed my eyes.
And suddenly, I was in the
midst of a chorus of voices
that stretched that way and
that way and back in time
in the fourth dimension as far
as I could hear and could see.
And this chorus of voices
was old as time itself.
And it shook me up.
It was an extraordinary chorus.
And it went on
for several hours.
And when I asked my guru
brother what that was,
he said, you tuned
in on the omkaar.
O-M-K-A-A-R. You tuned in
on the eternal sound of om
in the akasha.
In the ether.
You tuned in on higher sound.
You started to hear the
divine sounds of the universe.
And it's after
experiences of that nature
and having met so
many monks that you
begin to understand what a
powerful device a mantra is.